Branching Strategy Documentation
This document outlines the branching strategy used in the project to ensure a clean and efficient workflow for development, testing, and release processes.

Branch Descriptions
Release Branch

Purpose: This branch contains Jenkins configuration files and other artifacts required for actual releases to various environments (e.g., staging, production).
Usage:
Contains stable code ready for deployment.
Used exclusively for preparing release builds.
Bug fixes and final changes required for releases are applied here.
Merge Rules:
Feature branches or the develop branch are merged into the release branch only after successful testing.
Changes from the release branch are merged back into the develop branch to ensure consistency.
Develop Branch

Purpose: Serves as the primary branch for integration and contains the latest stable code.
Usage:
Acts as the baseline for all feature development and testing.
Developers integrate their work from feature branches here.
Changes in the develop branch are thoroughly tested before being promoted to the release branch.
Merge Rules:
Feature branches are merged into develop once their functionality is complete and reviewed.
Regular merges from the release branch occur to synchronize fixes and updates.
Feature Branches

Purpose: Each feature branch is dedicated to the development of a specific feature, enhancement, or bug fix.
Naming Convention: feature/<feature-name>
Usage:
Created from the develop branch.
Used to isolate feature development from the main integration branch.
Once development is complete and tested, the feature branch is merged back into develop.
Merge Rules:
Feature branches are reviewed and tested before merging into develop.
Deleted after their changes are integrated.
Branching Workflow
Feature Development:

Developers create a feature branch from develop.
Development and unit testing are conducted within the feature branch.
Once complete, the branch is merged into develop after passing code reviews and automated tests.
Integration and Testing:

The develop branch acts as the integration point for all features.
Continuous integration (CI) is used to test the develop branch for regressions and integration issues.
Releasing:

When a release is planned, a new release branch is created from develop.
Final testing and configuration adjustments (e.g., Jenkins files for different environments) are performed in the release branch.
Once validated, the release branch is tagged for deployment, and changes are merged back into develop to maintain code consistency.
Key Notes
Environment Configuration: The release branch is the sole branch containing environment-specific Jenkins configuration files for deployment.
Code Quality: All feature development is done in isolation to ensure the integrity of the develop branch and minimize conflicts.
Consistency: Changes made in the release branch are always merged back into develop to avoid discrepancies.



Adding tagging to the develop branch for internal versioning is a great idea to track significant milestones, features, or updates. Here’s how you can implement an efficient tagging strategy:

Proposed Tagging Strategy for develop
When to Tag

Tag the develop branch after:
Merging a significant feature or set of features.
Reaching a stable milestone in development.
Completing a sprint or iteration (if following Agile methodology).
Preparing a release candidate before creating a release branch.
Tagging Format Use a structured and descriptive tagging format. Here are a few suggestions:

Semantic Versioning with Suffix:

Format: vX.Y.Z-dev
X = Major version (incremented for breaking changes or major updates).
Y = Minor version (incremented for new features or enhancements).
Z = Patch version (incremented for bug fixes or small updates).
-dev = Indicates that the tag is specific to the develop branch and not a final release.
Example: v1.3.0-dev (Stable develop branch after adding new features for version 1.3.0).

Feature/Milestone Tags:

Format: feature/<feature-name>-vX.Y or milestone/<milestone-name>
Example:
feature/user-auth-v1.2 (Indicates a completed user authentication feature).
milestone/sprint5-v2.0 (Indicates completion of Sprint 5 in development).
How to Apply Tags

Create lightweight tags using Git:
bash
Copiar
Editar
git tag -a vX.Y.Z-dev -m "Description of the milestone or changes"
git push origin vX.Y.Z-dev
Alternatively, use annotated tags for detailed metadata:
bash
Copiar
Editar
git tag -a vX.Y.Z-dev -m "Added new features: authentication, logging"
git push origin vX.Y.Z-dev
Automating Tagging

Use CI/CD pipelines (e.g., Jenkins, GitHub Actions) to automate tagging.
Example Workflow:
Detect when the develop branch is stable (after all tests pass).
Automatically generate a tag using the latest version from a configuration file or increment based on the previous tag.
Push the tag to the repository.
Tag Management

Maintain a changelog or internal documentation linking each tag to its corresponding changes.
Use git tag -l to list all tags and ensure consistency.
Advantages of This Strategy
Traceability: Tags allow developers to easily locate specific points in the develop branch history for debugging or reference.
Versioning: Internal versioning ensures that the team can identify stable iterations without creating unnecessary release branches.
Clarity: A structured tagging format prevents confusion and provides clear communication about the state of the branch.
